Sai Venkat Gunda
/envelope_alt1105saivenkat@gmail.com | /mobile_phone+91 98408 80858 | /linkedinlinkedin.com/in/sai-venkat-gunda
/githubgithub.com/saivenkat1105 | /globesaivenkat1105.github.io
SUMMARY
Advanced Controls and ML Engineer with 4 years of industry experience. I specialize in the full engineering
lifecycle: translating complex system requirements into mathematical models, testing them in simulation, and
deploying data driven control strategies to hardware. Currently targeting roles in the Physical AI space that
require a deep mix of physical modeling, simulation, and applied machine learning.
Professional Experience
• Jaguar Land Rover Bengaluru, India
Advanced Controls Engineer May 2024 - Present
◦ Virtual Sensors : Engineered and deployed industrialized ML models to edge hardware to virtualize thermal
sensors achieving 96% real time prediction accuracy in production vehicles.
◦ ML Data Pipelines : Built a complete ML pipeline to create Virtual Sensors from data collection from multiple
simulation, rig and vehicle sources, robust data pre processing and ﬁltering, modelling and validation. Reduced the
complete delivery cycle from 1 week to 4 hours.
◦ Hypervisor: Assisted in developing a model based supervisory controller that calculates thermal energy
parameters real time and recommends the most eﬃcient mode of thermal operation. Hypervisor is currently
providing a range beneﬁt of 15-35 miles depending on ambient conditions
◦ Engineering Lifecycle : Managed the complete delivery of Hypervisor from requirement deﬁnition, failure mode
analysis, system validation across unit, rig and vehicle levels and feature delivery.
◦ State Estimation(EKF) : Developing an Extended Kalman Filter for the refrigerant system to replace existing
black box Virtual Sensors with grey-box state estimation techniques for better explainability, reliability and
accuracy of predictions
◦ Model Predictive Control(MPC) : Currently developing a deployable Model Predictive Controller architecture
for vehicle refrigerant systems to optimize between comfort, performance, component durability and eﬃciency.
• Jaguar Land Rover Bengaluru, India
Structural CAE Analyst July 2022 - May 2024
◦ Multi-disciplinary Optimization : Developed multi-objective topology optimization methods to satisfy
conﬂicting durability and crash requirements reducing weight by 10% and improving fastener performance by 16%
◦ Reduced Order Modelling : Developed reduced order 1D frontal crash modelling techniques providing quick
veriﬁcation of design ideas in seconds with an accuracy of 80%
Projects
• Acoustic Localization of Underwater Robots IIT Madras
Guide: Dr. Prabhu Rajagopal May 2021 - May 2022
◦ Sensor Development: Developed acoustic sensor systems for real-time and accurate localization with a ±10cm
accuracy across 1 km for pipeline robots using guided acoustic waves
• Autonomous All-terrain Mars Rover IIT Madras
Team and Traversal Lead Jan 2018 - May 2020
◦ 5 DOF Manipulator : Developed a 5 DOF serial manipulator with a compliant gripper. Developed closed loop
control systems for the manipulator using Inverse Kinematics for robust manipulation
◦ All-T errain T raversal System: Developed a rocker bogie suspension system for all terrain travel of autonomous
rovers capable of climbing 45 cm heights and 30 ° slopes
• Cerebral Palsy Assist Wheelchair IIT Madras
Guide: Dr. Sujatha Srinivasan July 2019 - July 2020
◦ Mechatronics: Developed pediatric wheelchairs with body movement based control systems for cerebral palsy
patients.
Programming Skills
Languages: Python, C++ Modelling and Simulation : MATLAB, Simulink, Gazebo, MuJoCo, Isaac Sim
F rameworks: ROS2(Humble), Nav2, SLAM Toolbox ML: Pytorch, Scikit-learn, Reinforcement Learning(PPO,
SAC, DQN), RAG, LLM
Education
• Indian institute of T echnology Madras Chennai, India
Dual Degree(B.Tech + M.Tech) Honours in Mechanical Engineering; GPA: 9.14 Aug. 2017 – May. 2022
